and so it begins again

i'm back from breakfast at mcdonalds, it was a relatively simple morning, i was happy to have woken up and see that it was 8am - i was fidgety last night about wanting to do work to "maintain my streak" but i had already done good work that day before that point.

i went out for a walk again yesterday, like i had the days before, and did so after i reached a point of mental saturation where i didn't feel like i could process any more information, it has been getting colder thought, and today is already negative seventeen degrees, so maybe that walk will be shorter this time, around five or six kilometers or so

speaking of which, i need to charge my watch...

2025-01-03-0903

okay done

i also want to set up some more pages on the main site repo that I'm working in, I'm thinking "goals" or maybe something more involved than that, like a full on mission -> vision -> goals/tasks/objectives whatever like used to be used in business planning. that sort of stuff is cool, but hard to have fully fleshed out, reasonable, sensible, and functional.

where else is my mind?

not far enough along on the process of processing for me to spin up a dialogue with o1, but if i were to do so we would be talking more about IPs and data transfer. I have two computers, each with ASUS ROG STRIX Z370-H Motherboards, and because they are in the same room, I have them connected, baseboard-to-baseboard, with an ethernet cable. I've done the IP assignment and pings to both systems, and have done some basic connection tests (and have set up other connections, like ssh and remote desktop into these devices from my entry model android smartphone using termux!) but haven't figured out a way to make this easy and accessible to me --- i want a better way to work on these systems, one from the other, without constantly having to stand up and walk to the other physical workstation.

I heard an AI talking about doing this through git, which I found a strangely potentially functional idea, but the other system that I am connected to is now dual booting into either Windows 10 Pro, of Linux Ubuntu Desktop 24.0, so with that, the way the different operating systems handle drives is different, with C:/ and D:/ drives on windows, and /dev/sdba or something like that on linux that needs to be mounted.

I'm still learning.

One of the biggest blockers in terms of my ability to make progress is the thoroughness of my understanding of APIs - I think they are really the key that I need to dive into next in order to understand networking and how I can do it securely and provides services to the clear net without risking the security of my system and network. I have a better idea of the local networking infrastructure, such as where the physical cell phone towers are near my residence, which company operates them --- just the basics, really. but i must admit that using mobile sim cards in order to access data capabilities has made me feel much better overall than using a wired connect. is it just simply paranoia? maybe.

but it has made a remarkable difference in my mood when it comes to interacting with technology and the internet, to be hopping between devices and connectivity, and not having a hard wired network that I do not fully understand the infrastrucure behind fully. I also don't have a good idea of like net maps, or net scans, or whatever, and i know that if my systems were to be accessed, an attacker barring physical access to my apartment and workstations, would need to first be making network requests, and secondly be accessing the system directly, so i should be able to track these things based on watching/observing/scanning the network, as well as watching like system or service processes, or maybe something like access or read/write logs for drives and things? That last one, the third suggestion, may not be a real thing.

The urge to start sharing this document with o1 to start the dialgoues is rising. But I think I can do better.

Oh, I also want to start trying to work with the twitter api and integrate it into this site, as well as potentially doing something with having a daily workflow based on Vera that does something around midnight, updates the site, looks at what happened, what changed, and makes a log or a note. I'll decide what to work on next while talking to o1...

(oh, also it's probably draft post day, i just need to find a time and mood where it feels best to share, i've been saving my thoughts as twitter draft posts more often and then just mass posting all of them at once to objuscate when exactly i had each thought and what prompted them)

let's see what o1 has to say this morning.

2025-01-03-0913

okay, o1 is generating, and i put the same post into 4o to get an idea of what to expect from o1 and to help me know what it did special

2025-01-03-0916

oh, yeah, and i'm also going to start trying to use cohere models for more, since i'm canadian and they received two hundred and fourty million dollars in funding (investment?) from the canadian government late last year, is two thousand and twenty four.

2025-01-03-0918

goodnees gracious are the responses from 4o and o1 different, although some of that is likely from my system prompts and memories, it's just... the formatting of the response is completely different, and 4o would have had access to the same instructions and memories that o1 did...

i'll add the initial response to a new dialogues file and keep working

2025-01-03-0920

maybe we dual boot this system so we can work here in linux? windows is much messier, a lot of deep system menus, and command prompt, power shell, and other options like the native and development tools from vs code and otherwise, in 64 bit and 32 bit... there is so much...

idk, *bloat* in windows? if AIs are natively giving me instructions in linux, it feels like an obvious pain point to address.

2025-01-03-0926
2025-01-03-0946

i was confused what the hold up was, then looked back over the next steps and saw system restart, i'm just posting twitter drafts and making minor formatting changes to the repo so far this morning.

2025-01-03-0946
2025-01-03-1009

okay, finally finished posting all the drafts i had saved up, minus one. i'll clean up this repo, then push and restart.

by clean up i just mean push the changes i have, watch the build, and then restart so the windows subsystem for linux starts and works.

2025-01-03-1010
2025-01-03-1153

concluded my first dialogue of the day with o1, it ended with talking about some sort of central machine with which to manage all of my others and also serve as the main storage and connectivity point with the rest of the wider internet, but i have no machine nor the budget to acquire and set one up in the short or immediate term, and doing so would supply to immediate benefits, so i will pass on that for now.

i went out for a bit and stopped by the post office to return some equipment to rogers, and then stopped by the grocery store on the way home and picked up some cereal and milk.

i do want to talk about the hashed individuals in the license at some point, really as soon as it becomes releveant and important to do so, but first i have some beauraucracy i have to handle, which is mostly an "annual income and asset reporting" for so that i can stay where i am in affordable housing - the form is not due until the fifth, which is in two days, but that is a sunday, so i figure to avoid any nastiness, i'll just get it done before eob.

brb.

2025-01-03-1156



